# Tracking Dashboard

This is an open-source application to either pull data from APRS-IS or from your own database and API endpoint for tracking your balloons and vehicles.

This requires a server to host this webpage and its database.

Additionally, this tool assumes your ground stations were set up using Cloudflare Tunnels for tracking their uptime.

This tool is cloud agnostic, although I highly recommend [Oracle's "always free" tier](https://www.oracle.com/cloud/free/) as it has the needed compute and database storage for everything we need to do.

# Setup VM

Go to [Oracle's "always free" tier](https://www.oracle.com/cloud/free/) and create an account. Create a compute instance and fill it out so that you are still within the free tier. When you get to the boot volume settings, set the storage to 200GB, as that is the max you are allowed on the free tier.

Next, SSH into your server. It is recommended that you run `sudo passwd ubuntu` and set a password for the default user. Then edit the SSH config by running `sudo nano /etc/ssh/sshd_config` and changing `PasswordAuthentication no` to `PasswordAuthentication yes`. Now if you'd like to allow other to SSH in, you can share the password with them without worrying about SSH keys. (This is less secure).

Optionally, to improve the security of your system, once you have it set up follow the same steps as in the Ground Station tutorial to add a Cloudflare Tunnel to your system. This will also allow you to monitor and ssh into your server from the same place as your ground stations.

# Setup DB

You will also need to create a database to use with this VM. You could run a database on the VM you have, seeing as it has 200GB available, but this is not ideal as it will use the web server's valuable and limited computer. Instead, I recommend using Oracle's "always free" Autonomous Transactional Database.

For security reasons, it is suggested to set the database to only allow connections on the same VCN as your VM and your computer's IP for setting up the database.

Once you have created this database, it is strongly recommended you create a new user with limited permissions, so that not everything needs to be done by the admin user. Write down the username and password you use in the `config.yaml` file.

Turn off mTLS and copy your connect string. It should look something like `(description= (retry_count=20)(retry_delay=3)(address=(protocol=tcps)(port=1521)(host=adb.us-ashburn-1.oraclecloud.com))(connect_data=(service_name=service_name_here.adb.oraclecloud.com))(security=(ssl_server_dn_match=yes)))`. Add this to the `config.yaml` file.

Setup the needed tables in the database by running:

```SQL
create table STATUS
(
    ID NUMBER GENERATED by default on null as IDENTITY,
    DATETIME TIMESTAMP(6) WITH TIME ZONE not null
)


```

# Clone Repo

```bash
git clone --no-checkout --depth=1 --filter=tree:0 https://github.com/EricAndrechek/trackuino-v2.git
cd trackuino-v2
git sparse-checkout set --no-cone tracking-dashboard
git checkout
cd tracking-dashboard
```
